# SRA Explorer

The scripts here were downloaded from [SRA Explorer](https://ewels.github.io/sra-explorer/#) where one can search for sequence read archive (SRA), European nucleotide archive (ENA) ids such as `GSE30567`, `SRP043510`, `PRJEB8073`, `ERP009109` or even non-ids such as `human liver miRNA`


## [Siebert 2019](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/PRJNA497876): Stem cell differentiation trajectories in Hydra resolved at single cell resolution

> The adult Hydra polyp continuously renews all of its cells using three separate stem cell populations but the genetic pathways enabling these dynamic tissue properties are not well understood. We used Drop-seq to sequence 24,985 Hydra cells and identified the molecular signatures of a broad spectrum of cell states, from stem cells to terminally differentiated cells. We constructed differentiation trajectories for each cell lineage and identified the transcription factors expressed along these trajectories, thus creating a comprehensive map of all developmental lineages in the adult animal. We unexpectedly found that neuron and gland cell differentiation transits through a common progenitor state, suggesting a shared evolutionary history for these secretory cell types. Finally, we have built the first gene expression map of the Hydra nervous system. By producing a comprehensive molecular description of the adult Hydra polyp, we have generated a resource for addressing fundamental questions regarding the evolution of developmental processes and nervous system function. Overall design: Drop-seq analysis of homeostatic Hydra vulgaris AEP (24,985 cells, 15 Drop-seq libraries total, 13 libraries for whole animal dissociations, 2 libraries for suspensions enriched for neuronal cells using FACS), ATAC-seq analysis of whole homeostatic Hydra magnipapillata 105 (3 replicated ATAC-seq libraries), Tag-seq analysis of epithelium specific gene expression of homeostatic Hydra vulgaris AEP (3 replicates for body column endoderm, 3 replicates for body column ectoderm).


## [Cao et al](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject?LinkName=pubmed_bioproject&from_uid=30787437): The dynamic transcriptional landscape of mammalian organogenesis at single cell resolution (house mouse)

> During mammalian organogenesis, the cells of the three germ layers transform into an embryo that includes most major internal and external organs. The key regulators of developmental defects can be studied during this crucial period, but conventional approaches lack the throughput and resolution to obtain a global view of the molecular states and trajectories of a rapidly diversifying and expanding number of cell types. Here we set out to investigate the transcriptional dynamics of mouse development during organogenesis at single cell resolution. With an improved single cell combinatorial indexing-based protocol (‘sci-RNA-seq3’), we profiled over 2 million cells derived from 61 mouse embryos staged between 9.5 and 13.5 days of gestation (E9.5 to E13.5; 10 to 15 replicates per timepoint). We identify hundreds of expanding, contracting and transient cell types, many of which are only detected because of the depth of cellular coverage obtained here, and define the corresponding sets of cell type-specific marker genes, several of which we validate by whole mount in situ hybridization. We explore the dynamics of proliferation and gene expression within cell types over time, including focused analyses of the apical ectodermal ridge, limb mesenchyme and skeletal muscle. With a new algorithm (Monocle 3), we identify the major single cell developmental trajectories of mouse organogenesis, and within these discover examples of distinct paths to the same endpoint, i.e. branching and convergence. These data comprise a foundational resource for mammalian developmental biology, and are made available in a way that will facilitate their ongoing annotation by the research community. Overall design: 2 million cells derived from 61 mouse embryos staged between 9.5 and 13.5 days of gestation (E9.5 to E13.5; 10 to 15 replicates per timepoint)

## [Wagner et al 2018](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/?Db=bioproject&DbFrom=pmc&Cmd=Link&LinkName=pmc_bioproject&IdsFromResult=6083445): Systematic mapping of cell state trajectories, cell lineage, and perturbations in the zebrafish embryo using single cell transcriptomics (zebrafish)


> High-throughput mapping of cellular differentiation hierarchies from single-cell data promises to empower systematic interrogations of vertebrate development and disease. Here, we applied single-cell RNA sequencing to >92,000 cells from zebrafish embryos during the first day of development. Using a graph-based approach, we mapped a cell state landscape that describes axis patterning, germ layer formation, and organogenesis. We tested how clonally related cells traverse this landscape by developing a transposon-based barcoding approach (“TracerSeq”) for reconstructing single-cell lineage histories. Clonally related cells were often restricted by the state landscape, including a case in which two independent lineages converge on similar fates. Cell fates remained restricted to this landscape in chordin-deficient embryos. We provide web-based resources for further analysis of the single-cell data. Overall design: Single-cell mRNA sequencing of zebrafish embryonic cells. Samples1-7: Single cell libraries from untreated embryos (4-24 hours post-fertilization). Samples8-12: Single cell libraries from embryos injected with TracerSeq lineage cassette at the 1-cell stage. Samples13-18: Single cell libraries from embryos injected with sgRNA + Cas9 at the 1-cell stage.

## [Pijuan-Sala B et al., 2019](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/?Db=bioproject&DbFrom=pmc&Cmd=Link&LinkName=pmc_bioproject&IdsFromResult=6522369): Single-cell RNA-seq analysis unveils a prevalent epithelial/mesenchymal hybrid state during mouse organogenesis

> Background: Organogenesis is crucial for proper organ formation during mammalian embryonic development. However, the similarities and shared features between different organs and the cellular heterogeneity during this process at single-cell resolution remain elusive. Results: We perform single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of 1,916 individual cells from eight organs and tissues of E9.5 to E11.5 mouse embryos, namely, the forebrain, hindbrain, skin, heart, somite, lung, liver, and intestine. Based on the regulatory activities rather than the expression patterns, all cells analyzed can be well classified into four major groups with epithelial, mesodermal, hematopoietic and neuronal identities. For different organs within the same group, the similarities and differences of their features and developmental paths are revealed and reconstructed. Conclusions: We identify mutual interactions between epithelial and mesenchymal cells and detect epithelial cells with prevalent mesenchymal features during organogenesis, which are similar to the features of intermediate epithelial/mesenchymal cells during tumorigenesis. The comprehensive transcriptome at single-cell resolution profiled in our study paves the way for future mechanistic studies of the gene- regulatory networks governing mammalian organogenesis. Overall design: Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis of 1,916 individual cells from eight organs and tissues of E9.5 to E11.5 mouse embryos, including the forebrain, hindbrain, skin, heart, somite, lung, liver, and intestine.